# Chemically Motivated Simulation Problems are Efficiently Solvable by a Quantum Computer

**Authors:** Philipp Schleich, Lasse Bjørn Kristensen, Jorge A. Campos Gonzalez Angulo, Davide Avagliano, Mohsen Bagherimehrab, Abdulrahman Aldossary, Christoph Gorgulla, Joe Fitzsimons, Alán Aspuru-Guzik

Simulating chemical systems is highly sought after and computationally challenging, as the number of degrees of freedom increases exponentially with the size of the system. Quantum computers have been proposed as a computational means to overcome this bottleneck , thanks to their capability of representing this amount of information efficiently. Most efforts so far have been centered around determining the ground states of chemical systems. However, hardness results and the lack of theoretical guarantees for efficient heuristics for initial-state generation shed doubt on the feasibility. Here, we propose a heuristically guided approach that is based on inherently efficient routines to solve chemical simulation problems, requiring quantum circuits of size scaling polynomially in relevant system parameters. If a set of assumptions can be satisfied, our approach finds good initial states for dynamics simulation by assembling them in a scattering tree. In particular, we investigate a scattering-based state preparation approach within the context of mergo-association. We discuss a variety of quantities of chemical interest that can be measured after the quantum simulation of a process, e.g., a reaction, following its corresponding initial state preparation.

---

**Published:** 2024-01-17 | **Updated:** 2025-04-18

**Topics:** via:author-whitelist:autonomous discovery, self-driving labs

**arXiv categories:** quant-ph, cs.CC, physics.chem-ph

[arXiv abstract page](http://arxiv.org/abs/2401.09268) | [PDF](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2401.09268)
