# SOFIA/upGREAT far-infrared spectroscopy of bright rimmed pillars in IC 1848

**Authors:** Dariusz C. Lis, Rolf Güsten, Paul F. Goldsmith, Yoko Okada, Youngmin Seo, Helmut Wiesemeyer, Marc Mertens

Using the upGREAT instrument on SOFIA, we have imaged the [C II] 158 μm fine structure line emission in bright-rimmed pillars located at the southern edge of the IC1848 H II region, and carried out pointed observations of the [O I] 63 and 145 μm fine structure lines toward selected positions. The observations are used to characterize the morphology, velocity field, and the physical conditions in the G1 - G3 filaments. The velocity-resolved [C II] spectra show evidence of a velocity shift at the head of the brightest G1 filament, possibly caused by radiation pressure from the impinging UV photons or the rocket effect of the evaporating gas. Archival Herschel PACS and SPIRE data imply H2 column densities in the range 10^{21} - 10^{22} cm^{-2}, corresponding to maximum visual extinction AV = 10 mag, and average H2 volume density of about 4500 cm^{-3} in the filaments. The [C II] emission traces ~ 17% of the total H2 column density, as derived from dust SED fits. PDR models are unable to explain the observed line intensities of the two [O I] fine structure lines in IC1848, with the observed [O I] 145 μm line being too strong compared to the model predictions. The [O I] lines in IC1848 are overall weak and the signal-to-noise ratio is limited. However, our observations suggest that the [O I] 63/145 μm intensity ratio is a sensitive probe of the physical conditions in photon dominated regions such as IC1848. These lines are thus excellent targets for future high-altitude balloon instruments, less affected by telluric absorption.

---

**Published:** 2024-09-25 | **Updated:** 2024-09-25

**Topics:** via:author-whitelist:automated kinetic mechanism generation

**arXiv categories:** astro-ph.GA

[arXiv abstract page](http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.17003) | [PDF](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2409.17003)
