# Comparative in-silico study of drug release from intraocular implants for glaucoma treatment

**Authors:** Umar Pitafi, Tao Chen, Cynthia Yu-Wai-Man, Daniel Sebastia-Saez

Drug-releasing implants are gaining momentum in the treatment of glaucoma. However, they present several limitations, such as the inability to provide an even distribution of the drug in the trabecular meshwork. CFD simulations were used in this work to study the interplay between ocular fluid dynamics and drug diffusion to explore the options to achieve a homogeneous drug distribution in the target tissue. The analysis finds that thermal convective currents do not result in efficient mixing within the eye's anterior chamber. This results in highly localized drug delivery in the trabecular meshwork when using a gravity-placed cylindrical implant. Placing the implant in the posterior chamber results in improved mixing, although it presents the risk of therapeutical drugs being absorbed by the corneal endothelium instead of reaching the trabecular meshwork. Finally, a ring implant next to the trabecular meshwork is tested, which would give rise to a homogeneous concentration around the entirety of the trabecular meshwork. However, implanting a 360° ring with cylindrical cross-section next to the trabecular meshwork can entail significant surgical challenges, so the solution could consist of smaller cylindrical ring segments to attain a sufficient aqueous humour draining rate for each specific patient.

---

**Published:** 2024-10-01 | **Updated:** 2025-11-19

**Topics:** Computational Fluid Dynamics & Multiphase Flow

**Tags:** cfd

**arXiv categories:** q-bio.TO

[arXiv abstract page](http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.01082) | [PDF](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.01082)
