# SpecTUS: Spectral Translator for Unknown Structures annotation from EI-MS spectra

**Authors:** Adam Hájek, Michal Starý, Elliott Price, Filip Jozefov, Helge Hecht, Aleš Křenek

Compound identification and structure annotation from mass spectra is a well-established task widely applied in drug detection, criminal forensics, small molecule biomarker discovery and chemical engineering.   We propose SpecTUS: Spectral Translator for Unknown Structures, a deep neural model that addresses the task of structural annotation of small molecules from low-resolution gas chromatography electron ionization mass spectra (GC-EI-MS). Our model analyzes the spectra in \textit{de novo} manner -- a direct translation from the spectra into 2D-structural representation. Our approach is particularly useful for analyzing compounds unavailable in spectral libraries.   In a rigorous evaluation of our model on the novel structure annotation task across different libraries, we outperformed standard database search techniques by a wide margin. On a held-out testing set, including \numprint{28267} spectra from the NIST database, we show that our model's single suggestion perfectly reconstructs 43\% of the subset's compounds. This single suggestion is strictly better than the candidate of the database hybrid search (common method among practitioners)   in 76\% of cases. In a~still affordable scenario of~10 suggestions, perfect reconstruction is achieved in 65\%, and 84\% are better than the hybrid search.

---

**Published:** 2025-02-07 | **Updated:** 2026-02-20

**Topics:** Separation Processes & Transport Phenomena

**Tags:** chemical-engineering, chromatography

**arXiv categories:** cs.LG, physics.data-an

[arXiv abstract page](http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.05114) | [PDF](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2502.05114)
