# Quantifying the Complexity of Materials with Assembly Theory

**Authors:** Keith Y Patarroyo, Abhishek Sharma, Ian Seet, Ignas Packmore, Sara I. Walker, Leroy Cronin

Quantifying the evolution and complexity of materials is of importance in many areas of science and engineering, where a central open challenge is developing experimental complexity measurements to distinguish random structures from evolved or engineered materials. Assembly Theory (AT) was developed to measure complexity produced by selection, evolution and technology. Here, we extend the fundamentals of AT to quantify complexity in inorganic molecules and solid-state periodic objects such as crystals, minerals and microprocessors, showing how the framework of AT can be used to distinguish naturally formed materials from evolved and engineered ones by quantifying the amount of assembly using the assembly equation defined by AT. We show how tracking the Assembly of repeated structures within a material allows us formalizing the complexity of materials in a manner accessible to measurement. We confirm the physical relevance of our formal approach, by applying it to phase transformations in crystals using the HCP to FCC transformation as a model system. To explore this approach, we introduce random stacking faults in closed-packed systems simplified to one-dimensional strings and demonstrate how Assembly can track the phase transformation. We then compare the Assembly of closed-packed structures with random or engineered faults, demonstrating its utility in distinguishing engineered materials from randomly structured ones. Our results have implications for the study of pre-genetic minerals at the origin of life, optimization of material design in the trade-off between complexity and function, and new approaches to explore material technosignatures which can be unambiguously identified as products of engineered design.

---

**Published:** 2025-02-13 | **Updated:** 2025-02-25

**Topics:** via:author-whitelist:chemputers, autonomous synthesis

**arXiv categories:** cond-mat.mtrl-sci

[arXiv abstract page](http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.09750) | [PDF](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2502.09750)
