# ELECTRA: A Cartesian Network for 3D Charge Density Prediction with Floating Orbitals

**Authors:** Jonas Elsborg, Luca Thiede, Alán Aspuru-Guzik, Tejs Vegge, Arghya Bhowmik

We present the Electronic Tensor Reconstruction Algorithm (ELECTRA) - an equivariant model for predicting electronic charge densities using floating orbitals. Floating orbitals are a long-standing concept in the quantum chemistry community that promises more compact and accurate representations by placing orbitals freely in space, as opposed to centering all orbitals at the position of atoms. Finding the ideal placement of these orbitals requires extensive domain knowledge, though, which thus far has prevented widespread adoption. We solve this in a data-driven manner by training a Cartesian tensor network to predict the orbital positions along with orbital coefficients. This is made possible through a symmetry-breaking mechanism that is used to learn position displacements with lower symmetry than the input molecule while preserving the rotation equivariance of the charge density itself. Inspired by recent successes of Gaussian Splatting in representing densities in space, we are using Gaussian orbitals and predicting their weights and covariance matrices. Our method achieves a state-of-the-art balance between computational efficiency and predictive accuracy on established benchmarks. Furthermore, ELECTRA is able to lower the compute time required to arrive at converged DFT solutions - initializing calculations using our predicted densities yields an average 50.72 % reduction in self-consistent field (SCF) iterations on unseen molecules.

---

**Published:** 2025-03-11 | **Updated:** 2026-01-24

**Topics:** via:author-whitelist:autonomous discovery, self-driving labs

**Tags:** dft

**arXiv categories:** cs.LG, physics.chem-ph, physics.comp-ph

[arXiv abstract page](http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.08305) | [PDF](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2503.08305)
