# The Open Catalyst 2025 (OC25) Dataset and Models for Solid-Liquid Interfaces

**Authors:** Sushree Jagriti Sahoo, Mikael Maraschin, Daniel S. Levine, Zachary Ulissi, C. Lawrence Zitnick, Joel B Varley, Joseph A. Gauthier, Nitish Govindarajan, Muhammed Shuaibi

Catalysis at solid-liquid interfaces plays a central role in the advancement of energy storage and sustainable chemical production technologies. By enabling accurate, long-time scale simulations, machine learning (ML) models have the potential to accelerate the discovery of (electro)catalysts. While prior Open Catalyst datasets (OC20 and OC22) have advanced the field by providing large-scale density functional theory (DFT) data of adsorbates on surfaces at solid-gas interfaces, they do not capture the critical role of solvent and electrolyte effects at solid-liquid interfaces. To bridge this gap, we introduce the Open Catalyst 2025 (OC25) dataset, consisting of 7,801,261 calculations across 1,511,270 unique explicit solvent environments. OC25 constitutes the largest and most diverse solid-liquid interface dataset that is currently available and provides configurational and elemental diversity: spanning 88 elements, commonly used solvents/ions, varying solvent layers, and off-equilibrium sampling. State-of-the-art models trained on the OC25 dataset exhibit energy, force, and solvation energy errors as low as 0.1 eV, 0.015 eV/Å, and 0.04 eV, respectively; significantly lower than than the recently released Universal Models for Atoms (UMA-OC20). Additionally, we discuss the impact of the quality of DFT-calculated forces on model training and performance. The dataset and accompanying baseline models are made openly available for the community. We anticipate the dataset to facilitate large length-scale and long-timescale simulations of catalytic transformations at solid-liquid interfaces, advancing molecular-level insights into functional interfaces and enabling the discovery of next-generation energy storage and conversion technologies.

---

**Published:** 2025-09-22 | **Updated:** 2025-09-22

**Topics:** Catalysis & Materials for Chemical Engineering, Energy, Sustainability & Electrochemical Systems, via:author-whitelist:Open Catalyst, ML for catalysis

**Tags:** catalysis, dft, energy-storage

**arXiv categories:** cond-mat.mtrl-sci, physics.chem-ph

[arXiv abstract page](http://arxiv.org/abs/2509.17862) | [PDF](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2509.17862)
